README.md, before:

Plotpp
======

A plotting library for C++ that uses Gnuplot as a backend.

Allows plotting from custom containers/vectors if they use `begin()` and `end()` iterators as well as plotting from built in arrays.

Requirements
============
- Gnuplot:  
	[Homepage](http://gnuplot.info/index.html)  
	[Windows Download](https://sourceforge.net/projects/gnuplot/files/gnuplot/)  
	[Linux install](https://riptutorial.com/gnuplot/example/11275/installation-or-setup):
	```
	sudo apt-get update
	sudo apt-get install gnuplot
	```
	Note: The project can be build without gnuplot,
	since this library will only communicate with gnuplot through pipes. 
	But you will need gnuplot to display the graphical plots.
- C++20

Features
========
### Plotting Styles
- Line
- Poins/Scatter/XError/YError/XYError
- Arrows/Vectors/Quiver
- Heatmap
- Boxes
- Boxplot

### Figure Styles
- Labeled x axis
- Logarithmic axes

Examples
========

You can see all examples in the `examples/` folder.

Line Plot
---------

```C++
std::vector<double> x(20);
for(size_t i=0; i < x.size(); ++i) x[i] = i;
	
std::vector<double> y1(20);
for(size_t i=0; i < y1.size(); ++i) y1[i] = 1./i*30;

Figure fig("Line Plot");
fig.add(line(x, y1, "1/x*30"));
fig.show();
fig.save("line-plot.png");
```
![Image of a line plot](images/line-plot.png)

Arrow Plot
----------

```C++
double arrow_x1[] = {-1, -2, -3, -4, -5};
double arrow_y1[] = {-1, -2, -1, -2, -3};
double arrow_x2[] = {-2, -3, -4, -5, -6};
double arrow_y2[] = {-3, -4, -2, -3, -5};

Figure fig("Arrow-Plot");
fig.add(arrows(arrow_x1, arrow_y1, arrow_x2, arrow_y2, "arrow plot", DataRelation::relative));
fig.show();
fig.save("arrows.svg");
```

![Image of an arrow plot](images/arrows.svg)

Multiplot
---------

```C++
const auto x = linspace(-3.1415, 3.1415, 50);

Multiplot mplt(2, 2, "Multiplot");
mplt.at(0, 0).add(line(x, sin(x), "Top-Left"));
mplt.at(0, 1).add(line(x, cos(x), "Top-Right"));
mplt.at(1, 1).add(line(x, sinh(x), "Bottom-Right"));
mplt.show();
mplt.save("multiplot.jpg");
```

![Multiplot Image](images/multiplot.jpg)

Integration
===========

With CMake CPM
--------------
Why would one use CPM? https://github.com/cpm-cmake/CPM.cmake
- CMake Package Manager
- Automatic Dependency Management in CMake
- Package Version Control
- Automatic Download and Build Integration

### Quick CPM Setup:  
Download the `CPM.cmake` file and put in the folder `cmake` 
and includ it in your project. 
CPM will then automatically download and build all dependencies.

```cmake
include(cmake/CPM.cmake)

CPMAddPackage(
    NAME Plotpp
    GIT_REPOSITORY "https://github.com/TobiasWallner/Plotpp"
    GIT_TAG "main"
)

add_executable(PROJECT_NAME main.cpp)
target_link_libraries(PROJECT_NAME plotpp) 
```

### Automatic CPM Setup:  
Use the following template to automatically download the CPM file 
and check if this project is a nested project in which case it will use the most upper CPM.cmake
instead of re-downloading it.
```cmake
cmake_minimum_required(VERSION 3.18.0)
 
project(PROJECT_NAME)

# -----------------------------------------------------------------
# 	CPM: An Awesome Dependency Manager for C++ with CMake
#		https://github.com/cpm-cmake/CPM.cmake
# -----------------------------------------------------------------

set(CPM_CMAKE_PATH "${CMAKE_BINARY_DIR}/cmake/CPM.cmake")
set(CPM_CMAKE_URL "https://github.com/cpm-cmake/CPM.cmake/releases/download/v0.40.2/CPM.cmake")

# Check if CPM.cmake exists
if(NOT EXISTS "${CPM_CMAKE_PATH}")
    message(STATUS "CPM.cmake not found. Downloading from ${CPM_CMAKE_URL}...")
    file(DOWNLOAD ${CPM_CMAKE_URL} ${CPM_CMAKE_PATH} STATUS download_status LOG download_log)
    list(GET download_status 0 return_code)  # Get the numeric return code
	list(GET download_status 1 error_message)  # Get the error message
	if(return_code)
		file(REMOVE ${CPM_CMAKE_PATH}) #cleanup
		message(FATAL_ERROR 
			"Error: ${error_message}.\n"
			"    Failed to download CPM.cmake. Check the URL or download it manually and place it at:\n"
			"    ${CPM_CMAKE_PATH}")
	else()
		message(STATUS "Successfully downloaded CPM.cmake.")
    endif()
else()
    message(STATUS "Found CPM.cmake at ${CPM_CMAKE_PATH}.")
endif()


include(${CPM_CMAKE_PATH})
option(CPM_USE_LOCAL_PACKAGES "Try `find_package` before downloading dependencies" ON)

# -----------------------------------------------------------------
# 					Add Modules / Dependencies
# -----------------------------------------------------------------

message(STATUS "======================== PROJECT_NAME: Fetching External Libraries =========================")

CPMAddPackage(
    NAME Plotpp
    GIT_REPOSITORY "https://github.com/TobiasWallner/Plotpp"
    GIT_TAG "main"
)

message(STATUS "======================== PROJECT_NAME: END: Fetching External Libraries =========================")

add_executable(PROJECT_NAME main.cpp)
target_link_libraries(PROJECT_NAME plotpp) 
```

With CMake Fetch Content
------------------------
```
include(FetchContent)
FetchContent_Declare(
  Plotpp
  GIT_REPOSITORY https://github.com/TobiasWallner/Plotpp.git
  GIT_TAG main
)
FetchContent_MakeAvailable(Plotpp)
```

With add_subdirectory
------------------------
Manually download the library and add it via `add_subdirectory`.
```cmake
add_subdirectory(path/to/Plotpp)
add_executable(PROJECT_NAME main.cpp)
target_link_libraries(YOUR_PROJECT_NAME PUBLIC plotpp)
```
Manual Build
------------
- include the folder containing `plotpp.hpp`
- compile and link all `*.cpp` files in `plotpp/`

Commit message:

added {fmt} library as a dependecy and pointed out that the user does not have to do anything and everything is handeled by the library

README.md, after:

Plotpp
======

A plotting library for C++ that uses Gnuplot as a backend.

Allows plotting from custom containers/vectors if they use `begin()` and `end()` iterators as well as plotting from built in arrays.

Requirements
============
- Gnuplot:  
	[Homepage](http://gnuplot.info/index.html)  
	[Windows Download](https://sourceforge.net/projects/gnuplot/files/gnuplot/)  
	[Linux install](https://riptutorial.com/gnuplot/example/11275/installation-or-setup):  
	Note: The project can be build without gnuplot,
	since this library will only communicate with gnuplot through pipes. 
	But you will need gnuplot to display the graphical plots.
- C++20

Dependencies
------------
- [\{fmt\}](https://github.com/fmtlib/fmt): the [\{fmt\}](https://github.com/fmtlib/fmt) library
  will be automatically downloaded by [CMake](https://cmake.org/) in the `CMakeLists.txt` script using [CPM](https://github.com/cpm-cmake/CPM.cmake)
  so you only have to do: `cmake -S . -B build` and the rest will be taken care of. 
  If you are already using [\{fmt\}](https://github.com/fmtlib/fmt) in your [CMake](https://cmake.org/) project it will link to that instead.  
  **TLDR:** everything is handled by the library and you (the user) do not have to do anything.

Features
========
### Plotting Styles
- Line
- Poins/Scatter/XError/YError/XYError
- Arrows/Vectors/Quiver
- Heatmap
- Boxes
- Boxplot

### Figure Styles
- Labeled x axis
- Logarithmic axes

Examples
========

You can see all examples in the `examples/` folder.

Line Plot
---------

```C++
std::vector<double> x(20);
for(size_t i=0; i < x.size(); ++i) x[i] = i;
	
std::vector<double> y1(20);
for(size_t i=0; i < y1.size(); ++i) y1[i] = 1./i*30;

Figure fig("Line Plot");
fig.add(line(x, y1, "1/x*30"));
fig.show();
fig.save("line-plot.png");
```
![Image of a line plot](images/line-plot.png)

Arrow Plot
----------

```C++
double arrow_x1[] = {-1, -2, -3, -4, -5};
double arrow_y1[] = {-1, -2, -1, -2, -3};
double arrow_x2[] = {-2, -3, -4, -5, -6};
double arrow_y2[] = {-3, -4, -2, -3, -5};

Figure fig("Arrow-Plot");
fig.add(arrows(arrow_x1, arrow_y1, arrow_x2, arrow_y2, "arrow plot", DataRelation::relative));
fig.show();
fig.save("arrows.svg");
```

![Image of an arrow plot](images/arrows.svg)

Multiplot
---------

```C++
const auto x = linspace(-3.1415, 3.1415, 50);

Multiplot mplt(2, 2, "Multiplot");
mplt.at(0, 0).add(line(x, sin(x), "Top-Left"));
mplt.at(0, 1).add(line(x, cos(x), "Top-Right"));
mplt.at(1, 1).add(line(x, sinh(x), "Bottom-Right"));
mplt.show();
mplt.save("multiplot.jpg");
```

![Multiplot Image](images/multiplot.jpg)

Integration
===========

With CMake CPM
--------------
Why would one use CPM? https://github.com/cpm-cmake/CPM.cmake
- CMake Package Manager
- Automatic Dependency Management in CMake
- Package Version Control
- Automatic Download and Build Integration

### Quick CPM Setup:  
Download the `CPM.cmake` file and put in the folder `cmake` 
and includ it in your project. 
CPM will then automatically download and build all dependencies.

```cmake
include(cmake/CPM.cmake)

CPMAddPackage(
    NAME Plotpp
    GIT_REPOSITORY "https://github.com/TobiasWallner/Plotpp"
    GIT_TAG "main"
)

add_executable(PROJECT_NAME main.cpp)
target_link_libraries(PROJECT_NAME plotpp) 
```

### Automatic CPM Setup:  
Use the following template to automatically download the CPM file 
and check if this project is a nested project in which case it will use the most upper CPM.cmake
instead of re-downloading it.
```cmake
cmake_minimum_required(VERSION 3.18.0)
 
project(PROJECT_NAME)

# -----------------------------------------------------------------
# 	CPM: An Awesome Dependency Manager for C++ with CMake
#		https://github.com/cpm-cmake/CPM.cmake
# -----------------------------------------------------------------

set(CPM_CMAKE_PATH "${CMAKE_BINARY_DIR}/cmake/CPM.cmake")
set(CPM_CMAKE_URL "https://github.com/cpm-cmake/CPM.cmake/releases/download/v0.40.2/CPM.cmake")

# Check if CPM.cmake exists
if(NOT EXISTS "${CPM_CMAKE_PATH}")
    message(STATUS "CPM.cmake not found. Downloading from ${CPM_CMAKE_URL}...")
    file(DOWNLOAD ${CPM_CMAKE_URL} ${CPM_CMAKE_PATH} STATUS download_status LOG download_log)
    list(GET download_status 0 return_code)  # Get the numeric return code
	list(GET download_status 1 error_message)  # Get the error message
	if(return_code)
		file(REMOVE ${CPM_CMAKE_PATH}) #cleanup
		message(FATAL_ERROR 
			"Error: ${error_message}.\n"
			"    Failed to download CPM.cmake. Check the URL or download it manually and place it at:\n"
			"    ${CPM_CMAKE_PATH}")
	else()
		message(STATUS "Successfully downloaded CPM.cmake.")
    endif()
else()
    message(STATUS "Found CPM.cmake at ${CPM_CMAKE_PATH}.")
endif()


include(${CPM_CMAKE_PATH})
option(CPM_USE_LOCAL_PACKAGES "Try `find_package` before downloading dependencies" ON)

# -----------------------------------------------------------------
# 					Add Modules / Dependencies
# -----------------------------------------------------------------

message(STATUS "======================== PROJECT_NAME: Fetching External Libraries =========================")

CPMAddPackage(
    NAME Plotpp
    GIT_REPOSITORY "https://github.com/TobiasWallner/Plotpp"
    GIT_TAG "main"
)

message(STATUS "======================== PROJECT_NAME: END: Fetching External Libraries =========================")

add_executable(PROJECT_NAME main.cpp)
target_link_libraries(PROJECT_NAME plotpp) 
```

With CMake Fetch Content
------------------------
```
include(FetchContent)
FetchContent_Declare(
  Plotpp
  GIT_REPOSITORY https://github.com/TobiasWallner/Plotpp.git
  GIT_TAG main
)
FetchContent_MakeAvailable(Plotpp)
```

With add_subdirectory
------------------------
Manually download the library and add it via `add_subdirectory`.
```cmake
add_subdirectory(path/to/Plotpp)
add_executable(PROJECT_NAME main.cpp)
target_link_libraries(YOUR_PROJECT_NAME PUBLIC plotpp)
```
Manual Build
------------
- include the folder containing `plotpp.hpp`
- compile and link all `*.cpp` files in `plotpp/`
